My name is Archibald...
Archibald Suchot.
I'm an engineer and
I spent more than 10 years in Africa
building every type of useful thing.
By the way, it's in the heart
of Africa that our story begins.
Well, this is not Africa.
This is Connecticut.
And this is the house I lived in
before I mysteriously disappeared.
But that's another story that my grandson
would be more qualified to tell you.
You will see he's a lovely charming kid
who answers to the name of...
Arthur!!
Where's he gone to this time?!
And the dog's disappeared too!!!
Alfred!!?
"Oh yes, you'll see,"
"he'll be a great guard dog!"
Alfred!!!
I wonder what exactly
it is he'll be guarding!
Oh...
If you could at least answer when I call!
Arthur?
- Arthur!!
- Ha!
An attack!
Men, come to my aid!!
Calm down!
It's me! Granny!
Sorry!
I was in Africa!
I can tell!
Did you have a good trip?
Fantastic!
I was in a tribe with Grandpa!
Look! Grandpa painted a canvas
that he placed in a circle.
That way the animals pace
round and round it, but can't find us.
- It's like we're invisible.
- Invisible, but not unsmellable!
Did you have your bath this morning?
I was on my way
when I found this book!
- Hmm.
- It's incredible!
It's all the inventions Grandpa made
for the isolated tribes.
Yes. He was more interested in
African tribes than he was his own!
Look!
He dug a super deep well
and invented a whole irrigation system
out of bamboo poles.
You know, it wasn't Grandpa
who invented that, it was the Romans.
They called them viaducts.
The Romans?
I never heard of that tribe!
Oh, it's a very old tribe.
The leader was called Caesar.
Like the salad?
Yes, like the salad.
Put that book back where you got it.
We have to go shopping!
Granny, please.
Can I drive on the way back?
I don't know, Arthur.
We'll see.
- Oh, please, Grandpa would always...
- Grandpa's not here and I'm in charge.
- Good day, Mrs. Suchot!
- Oh, officer, hello!
Always a pleasure to see you in town.
Thank you, officer.
Always a pleasure to see you too.
- Good day, officer!
- Good day.
Arthur, um, here,
here's the shopping list.
And I'm, I'm just gonna run
across the street for five minutes.
So I'll meet you at the check out counter.
- Can I buy some straws?
- Yeah, as many as you like.
- Did he follow you?
- I don't think so.
Perfect!
There!
It's all there.
Perfect, this is wonderful.
Thank you so much.
- What do I owe you?
- Are you crazy?
Nothing, nothing at all!
Now, get going before he catches you.
I'm speechless, I don't know how thank you!
By letting me participate!
Nothing could make me happier!
- Now, get going!
- Thanks so much.
I'm counting on you
to let me know how it went?
- I will. I'll call you tomorrow!
- Talk to you tomorrow!
- Bye.
Oh Arthur!
Arthur, no, no, no it's fine.
You go off and play.
- Go off while it's still light!
- Sure?
- Absolutely.
- Thanks Granny!
Sure.
Yes!
World champion!
Alfred!
Watch carefully, Alfred!
You are about to witness
the invention of the largest
irrigation system in the county.
Bigger than Grandpa's,
better than Caesar's.
This is Arthur's...
invention!
Perfect!
By the grace of God!
Yeah.
Alfred!
Congratulations!
It's a remarkable invention
that'll go down in history!
- Believe me!
- Arthur! Telephone!!
You'll have to excuse me!
Probably the, uh, President calling
to congratulate me.
Hey! I built an irrigation
system like Caesar's!
Now the radishes
will grow twice as fast!
Is this my honey pie?!
Who, who is this "Seesher"?
One of Grandpa's colleagues.
But I followed Grandpa's blueprints
and it works really well!
I hope you can get here
before nighttimes so you can see it...
- Where are you now?
- Um...
Well, we're still in the city, Arthur.
Oh! Well, I guess you'll see it
tomorrow morning...
Um... No, we, we're not going
to able to make it, Arthur.
But even though we can't be there,
we wanted to tell you
that we're thinking of you...
because today is...
your birthday!!
- Happy Birthday son!
Thought we'd forgot, didn't you?
But ten years old is a big deal!
You're a big boy now, aren't you?
So how did you like the present?
- We haven't gotten it yet, you idiot!
- What?
No, I fixed it with Granny.
Yes, you can go into town tomorrow
and pick out whatever you like.
Not too expensive!
Just joking, son!
But we'll see you real soon.
And, uh, remember you have yourself a...
- Happy birthday!!
Mmm, mmm, mmm, mmm, moa!
It wasn't the President.
Happy birthday to you!
Happy birthday dear Arthur!
You know what?
You're the best Granny in the world!
And you're the best grandson!
Go on, blow them out!
- Presents first?
- Oh.
Okay.
This is from Alfred.
I never had a new one before!
Thank you Alfred!
No, ah! If you could wait
til you're outside to throw it,
- I'd consider that a favor.
- Oh, yeah, you're right.
And this is from me.
It's beautiful!
How did you manage to bake a cake?
I thought the oven was broken.
Mrs. Kerman from the hardware store
actually made it!
Still like it?
It's fantastic.
Just too big for three.
Don't be too hard on them, Arthur!
They try their best.
I spend my whole year
in boarding school in England.
When I come back for vacation,
they're not even here!
Anyway I'm used to it now,
they're never here for my birthday.
Wait! Make a wish.
I wish that, for my next birthday,
Grandpa will be here to share it.
Better blow them out quick,
you don't wanna eat a wax cake!
Every night this magnificent
sunset was all ours.
It's precisely into this landscape
that your mother came into the world.
While I was having the baby,
your grandfather was painting this.
- Who are they?
- The Bogo-Matassalai.
Your grandfather helped build
an irrigation ditch for them.
And in return, they gave him
a big bag of rubies.
- Really?
- Really.
Oh, I could tell you
stories all night long.
Great!
Tell me.
No, not tonight, Arthur.
Maybe, tomorrow.
- Come on
- No, I haven't even cleaned the kitchen.
Please, Granny.
Just a little!
It's my birthday!
Oh.
- Alright, just one minute.
- Ok.
The Bogo-Matassalai were very, very tall.
They say that nature always
balances itself with its opposite.
And for centuries they searched for them,
in order to find perfect harmony.
And did they find them?
Yes. It was another tribe
living right next to them.
And they had this particular trait.
They were small as a tooth.
They called them the Minimoys!
Wow!
Did they get along?
Oh, wonderfully!
Soon they were inseparable!
The one side very incredibly tall,
the other incredibly small.
And only together could they
have a complete vision of the world.
Who's this?
This is the Princess Selenia.
Daughter of the king of the Minimoys.
She's beautiful!
I mean, this is incredible!
Yes, and the king himself
gave your grandfather
the secret of how to
find him anytime he wanted!
That's what your grandfather said
every time he was a little drunk.
I like the Minimoys, too.
Now, to sleep!
Sweet dreams.
We miss you, Archibald.
We really do.
Stop!!!
How you doing, kid?
Wow! Wow! Ahh!
Nice shot.
Ah! Mr. Davido!
You startled me!
I'm so sorry!
Spring cleaning? Need a hand?
No, thank you.
What do you want this time?
Here it is!
Done!
Signed, sealed and delivered.
You didn't waste any time!
I was coincident, really.
I was in church this morning.
You were in church?
I've never seen you there.
Oh, I usually sit in the back.
Modesty really.
You really should have been there.
You would have seen the Mayor,
who confirmed the document
which pronounces
the expiration of your ownership
of this roperty for lack of payment.
The President of the bank,
who transferred your debt to me.
And as amazing as it may seem,
you know who else was there?
The Notary and the Chief of Police
who countersigned the order of eviction.
So you see,
there is not a single signature missing
and if your husband does not sign
this paper within the next 48 hours,
I will be under the obligation to
evict you from this property
whether your laundry is dry or not!
Oh!
You should hang him up
to dry as well!
Are we gonna have to leave the house?
I'm afraid so...
I won't be able to hold off
that vulture Davido much longer.
But what about the treasure?
The rubies that
the Matassalais gave Grandpa?!
Your grandpa hid them
somewhere out there in the yard.
I dug for weeks!
And I...
He hid them so well
I haven't been able to find them.
Where are you going?
You think I'm gonna hang around
twiddling my thumbs for forty eight hours?
I'm gonna find the treasure!
Just like his Grandpa!
You should go and find my car
rather than sitting there watching me.
Can I help you?
Oh!
Pardon me!
You came by our house
once and left this.
You said if we ever wanted to get rid
of any furniture or knick knacks...
- Yes?
- Well, I... I, I brought this...
It's from my private collection...
I wondered if it was at all valuable.
Aah...
What is this?
A carnival mask?
No, this is an African mask.
This is... This belonged to the chief
of the Bogo-Matassalai tribe.
- Two bucks.
- Two dollars?
But this is... of inestimable value...
Alright, alright, two fifty.
That's the best I can do!
This kind of exotic object
just isn't selling any more.
People want practical, concrete,
modern stuff, you know.
I can't believe you'd have hidden
the treasure in the yard
without leaving some sort of clue, a note,
something to help us find it!
Malthazar...
The Evil... M.
I hope I have the honour of
meeting you one day, princess!
In the meantime...
Permit me to steal a kiss.
Jealous!
I knew it!
"To get to the land of the Minimoys"
"put your trust in Shakespeare."
Shakespeare?
What tribe's he from?
The house is here...
South is that way.
The tree! The elf!
The moon!
It's all there!
Alfred! We found it!
Yes!!
- Ah!
- Hang on there, young man!
Arthur, how many times
do I have to tell you?
I don't want you playing in this room.
- Excuse me, please, go ahead!
- Thank you...
- Granny?
- What?
- Who are these guys?
- This gentleman is going to
evaluate some of
your grandpa's things.
Granny?! You're not gonna sell
grandpa's things?!
Oh, I'm afraid I don't
have any choice anymore!
Yes we do!
Look! It's the map
to get to the Minimoys!
- What map?
- They're here!
Grandpa brought them back
from Africa with him!
If we can get to them, I'm sure
they can lead us to the treasure!
Arthur you're a big boy now, right?
You don't really believe
there are little elves
running around the garden
just waiting for you to visit
so they can slap
a bag of rubies in your hand!
Pardon me?
Euh... Nothing.
I was just chatting
with my grandson.
If you have jewels,
we are interested.
Unfortunately, not a jewel on the horizon.
Go to your room, now.
"Some words may hide others".
William. S.
"S" for Socrates?
Shakespeare.
William Shakespeare.
Oh.
Not too far off!
Yes. Better hurry and make your choice
before I change my mind.
- Come on.
- Granny...
Let's go.
Let's go!
Three hundred dollars.
It's not very much for
thirty years of memories!
A down payment! If I sell them well,
you'll have more.
Thank you.
- Mrs. Suchot?
- Yes.
Frederic De Saint-Clair.
Process server.
Bailiff.
Hmm. It seems I came
at an opportune time.
I have a claim for debt collection
which concerns you,
for non-payment of services
rendered by a certain Mr. Davido,
Ernest, for the amount of
two hundred fifty two dollars.
Now with the six percent
late penalty surcharge,
and procedural fees added,
that comes to a total of two hundred
ninety five dollars and five cents.
May I?
Here's your change.
- Hello?
- Sweetie it's Mom.
- Is everything alright?
- Great.
We're cleaning up today!
It's amazing how much old stuff
just piles up around the place.
But, thanks to Granny,
who threw it all out!
Arthur!
Don't upset your parents!
Did you hang up on your mother?
Of course not! It hung up by itself
Well, she'll call back in a second!
Granny! They've cut the phone line!
Don't you see what's happening?
We've fallen into their trap,
and it's closing in on us
a little bit more every minute!
But as long as I live and breathe,
they're not gonna get this house!!!
There you see?
That's probably the repairman.
- Good evening ma'am!
- You came at just the right time!
Our phone's just been cut off
and I really think you
should warn people!
I agree, ma'am,
but I'm not from the phone company,
I'm from the electric company.
And I came to tell you that you're gonna
be cut off soon for non payment.
Some words may hide others...
Grandpa, help me...
When am I gonna get cut off?
That's what I call a clear answer.
Don't move, I'll get a candle.
Some words may hide others...
Of course!
My dear Arthur.
I was sure I could count
on you to find my riddle.
You must be at least ten
to have become so clever.
I, on the other hand,
have not been so clever.
And if you are reading this,
I am probably dead.
Therefore, the heavy task of
accomplishing my mission now falls to you.
- If you accept it, that is.
- I accept, Grandpa.
I knew you would.
Bravo!
To get to the land of the Minimoys,
you must know on which day
the next passage will fall.
There's only one per year.
Take the universal calendar from my desk.
The night of the tenth moon,
at precisely midnight,
the moonlight-passage will open...
If you follow my instructions,
you will have the world in your hands.
August, the 3rd.
That's today!
Night brings good counsel, Arthur.
We'll sleep on it...
Tomorrow will bring a solution.
- Good night, Granny.
- Goodnight.
The world in my hands...
World in my hands...
On the right side of the chimney,
there's a button.
Turn it all the way to the right
and then turn it back to the left.
Only twenty minutes before midnight.
I've got to do something.
As soon as you can,
go to my office if the door is open.
If it's locked, it's because
your grandma has been around.
You'll have to work it out by yourself.
Ah!
I thought you were in the shower!
No, I was in the living room
looking for my sleeping drops.
And if you don't get back
into bed this second
I'm gonna make you
drink the whole bottle!
Go!
Go on! Go on!
You know. I don't like to do this.
But I'm, I'm gonna lock you in.
I don't want you to do
anything stupid tonight.
- Okay.
Alfred, what're you doing?
Go to sleep.
Is it the full moon or what?
Thank you, Alfred.
Aaaah!
Granny!?
"Always keeps this key with you."
The garden, the tree,
the telescope...
Oh my god!
I need more light!
I've seen Granny do this a hundred times.
Oh, yeah, the brake...
Ah!
Ah!!
Whoa!
No! No!!!
Perfect!
Sorry, old man!
Now for the dolls.
Alfred!
Arthur?
Uh, yeah.
- Follow me!
- Oh, okay...
Hi.
Time to go.
You, you're not coming?
Only one can pass through.
and you seem to us to be
the best choice to combat Evil M.
MALTHAZAR?
Never, never speak that name.
- It brings bad luck.
- Okay, okay.
Your grandfather went off to defeat him.
And now it's up to you
to continue his fight.
Thanks for the honor, but...
I think it might be better
if I leave my place to one of you.
I mean, you're so much bigger
and stronger than me.
Your heart is the strongest of weapons.
Okay.
First ring, for the body...
three times...
to the right.
The second ring, for the mind
three times...
to... the left.
And the third ring...
One whole turn...
for the soul.
Ah!!
There!
The door is open!
You can introduce yourself!
Introduce myself?
Yes, and try to be convincing
because you only have five minutes.
Alright! Be convincing!
Okay! Okay!
Euh, there's a...
With...
Archibald?
No, no.
No.
Introduce yourself!
Euh, I'm his grandson.
My name is Arthur.
And you are...
Saimono Matrodoy de Betameche.
- Right.
- But you can call me Beta.
Pleased to meet you, Beta.
I hope you have a good reason
for using the beam like that,
because the Council
has strictly forbidden it.
Go on! Go on!
This is a matter of extreme urgency!!
In just two days' time,
the garden will be destroyed!
What are you talking about, young man?!
Are you a practical joker,
like your grandfather?
This is no joke, Mister Betameche.
A building contractor wants to flatten
the land and build apartment blocks!!
Ah!
What are apartment blocks?
Enormous houses built from concrete
that will cover up all the gardens and,
and stop the flowers from growing!
Heuh?!
But that's awful!!
The only way to prevent this
is for me to find the treasure
that my grandfather
has hidden somewhere!
Then I'll be able to pay off the contractor
and none of this will happen!
Well, that's a really good idea!
All's well that ends well!
See ya!
No, no!
To do that,
I need to pass into your world.
So I can start looking for the treasure!
Heuh?!
That's not possible!
You can't make a journey just like that.
The council must first be assembled,
then you must explain your problem to them,
and they will then deliberate and...
And in two days' time the land
will be flattened and you'll all be dead!
- This is an extreme emergency.
- Yes.
And we have to act now
because the future of
your people is in your hands!
Yes, you're right in my hands.
This calls for action!
Ferryman! Ferryman!
Wake-up, it's an emergency!
You did well!
I hope it will be enough
to convince him!
Betameche?!
You little good-for-nothing!
Don't you have anything better to do
than go around waking up honest people?
But it's the light!
It has been reactivated!
What?
Again!?
Why does everyone want
to suddenly travel?!
- The last one was three years ago.
- Exactly, that's what I mean.
I was just starting to nod off.
Hurry up.
The boy needs to see the King!
The King! The King!
First, the moon!
Is it full now?
Perfect, perfect!
And now for the rings...
So...
three turns to the right for the body...
Three turns to the left for the spirit.
And now, one whole turn for the soul.
W... What's happening to me?!
You are going to join our brothers,
the Minimoys!
- They will lead you to the Seven Kingdoms.
- Help! Stop!
- You only have thirty-six hours!
- Granny!
At noon on the day after tomorrow,
the gateway will close again
for 1000 days!
Thirty six hours...
I'll do my best!
Good luck, Arthur.
The key!
You have the key?
The key?
Yeah, I have the key!
Ok. Now go over to the lock.
The lock?
That has to be it.
Good! Good!
Now turn the key...
I'm gonna die!!
Yes!
No, no, no, no, nooo! Aaaaah!
Welcome to the Land of the Minimoy!
It's not funny!
You really scared me!
I thought I was going to die in that...
Oh...
- That's incredible!
- What's incredible?
I dunno, just look at my clothes,
they've changed!
You can admire yourself later.
The council's waiting for you.
Come on, follow me!
I think I'd like to take a little nap.
How far've they got?!
You're joking?
They've only just started.
Princess Selenia!
My little girl.
Father!
Sorry.
Princess Selenia, may the spirits
of the Ancients guide you.
- Papa!!!
- Heuh!
Yes?
Papa!
- Where are you?
- I'm over here!
Ah!
My son!
You did that on purpose, didn't you?
Couldn't you have waited ten seconds
before playing the clown?!
I'm on a mission of great importance!
Aah?? Because my mission isn't
of great importance, is that it?
You're far too arrogant
to be able to free the sword!
You know you are!
Enough!
Stop bickering, the two of you!
Betameche!
I hope you have a good reason
for daring to disrupt
this important ceremony.
I do father! The Upperlands Light Beam
was activated today.
Who is this uplander?
His name is Arthur.
He's the grandson of Archibald.
And he says a great misfortune
is about to befall us...
Our great misfortune has a name.
The Evil M.
And we have no need of
this Arthur person.
As the Princess of royal blood,
the task of protecting
our People falls to me.
- Heuh!
- Yes, but...
Okay.
- Will she make it?
- No.
It's moving!
I have it, I have it!
I can feel it!
- She's never gonna make it.
- I don't think she's gonna make it.
See? Told you so.
Way too arrogant.
While the Princess gets
her second wind,
perhaps, we should hear
this young man.
Where does he come from?
Oh!
He's so cute!
Cute huh?
Ordinary.
My humble respects,
Princess Selenia.
- Who told him my name?
- My humble respects, Princess Selenia.
- I'm sure it was you.
- Hey!
You're only one
that knows this Arthur.
Oh, yeah.
You can't keep a secret.
My humble respects,
Your Majesty.
Eum, eum, yes.
My respects...
Oh, Arthur.
I am delighted to meet you.
I was a good friend of
your Grandpa, Archibald!
Miro, leave him alone!
Well young man,
we're all ears!
It's like this:
In just under two days,
some men are going to come and
destroy my house, my garden, my world.
- And your world.
- And you...
All two and a half millimeters of you,
you've come to save us, is that it?
The only way to stop these men
is to pay them off!
This is why my grandfather
came to you three years ago.
He was looking for a treasure and
I've come to complete his mission.
Your grandfather was a remarkable man.
He taught us so many things!
He was the one who showed Miro
how to harness image and light.
Then one day he left,
in search of his famous rubies.
After wandering through the seven lands,
which make up our world,
he finally found it.
Deep in the heart of
the city of Necropolis,
where he reigns supreme...
The Evil M.
And unfortunately, no one ever returns
from the Forbidden Lands.
So...
Look out to the central gate!!
It's Gondolo,
the Juggler of the Great River.
We thought he was lost forever
in the Forbidden Lands...
Stop!!
What's wrong, Arthur?
Sire, look over there.
It looks as if a piece is peeling off.
I think it's a trap.
That's a painted canvas.
My grandfather used to do this in Africa
to protect himself from wild animals...
Well, we're not wild animals
and we're not going to leave
this unhappy creature to die.
Here, make yourself useful!
Oh my god!
Gondolo...
Oh...
- Selenia!
- Yes.
Take it easy, Gondolo.
It's... a trap!
Oh!
Oh my god!
Mosquitos!
Arthur!
Close!
Close the gate!!
Charge!!!
Go get them!
Come on!
Ready to fire!
Watch out!
Follow me to the palace!
- Hurry, father!
- Yes, yes, I'm coming.
Ohh!
Oh!
I am so sorry.
I'm so clumsy.
A... Ahem.
Perfect timing...
I rather fancied
stretching my legs a little.
Father!
Go and take cover, quickly!
Out of the question!
It's a king's duty to face his destiny
and if only one person is left standing,
I will be that person.
Ha!
- Hi.
- Ha!
- We have to go on fighting!
- Sure, but with what?!
Take my weapon.
I'll find another one!
This is not working.
Gentlemen, it's time to face up to reality.
Watch out!
The walls are booby trapped.
Fly close to the roof.
It's much safer.
I couldn't agree with you more.
Come on, my lovebirds!
This is your chance to prove
you really love each other.
Here you go.
Okay, we'll let them have one final kiss.
Okay, that's enough now!
When I blow my whistle, release your Romeo
so he can get back to his Juliet.
Okay.
Break formation!
Whooaa!
Oh no!
Hi!
You wanna play!
Okay, here we go.
Come on!
Right, this can't be more complicated
than driving a car!
Whooaa!!!
Aahh!!
Beta!
Look out!
Arthur!
I'll never forget you!
No, you fool!
No, it's not feeding time!
No... Not the gap!!
Not the gap!!
Oh!
Ok, here we go again.
That's it.
I've got it!! Ouuah!
And one mosquito down!!
Yeah that's better.
Now let's go for it!
How brave he is.
How heroic!
It's amazing how much he's just like me!
He'd make a good partner for you.
Father, I'm old enough
to look after myself.
Forget it.
Oh!
So who's next in line?
- Oh no!
- Oh yes!
- Betameche!
- Arthur?
Do something!
Hang on, Arthur.
I'm coming!
What a gift he is!!
Come to think of it,
he does remind me of you.
You okay?
Nothing broken?
I'm not sure,
I can't feel anything on my butt.
Just one question.
Where did you learn to fly like that?
Umm...
Driving with my grandfather.
That makes sense.
Ahh!
Mogoth, king me.
Uh...
For being clueless...
that went rather well.
Hmm...
Prepare to witness
the wrath of Mogoth.
Whooaa... Oohh.
Hold on. Not now.
Get up. Mogoth!
Selenia!
The Master wishes to see you.
Follow us and no harm will come to you!
- Come and get me!
- Right, go on, grab her!
- Why me?
- Well, who else?
- Well, you for example!
- Me? Why me?
Four of you attacking one woman!
- Aren't you ashamed of yourselves?
- No.
- Pick on someone your own size!
- With pleasure.
Long live the King!
Oh, my daughter!
My child,
I must do something.
Cover me!
Thank you.
The sword of power.
It's a miracle!
Okay.
That's enough now.
Get on your knees and
beg the Princess for forgiveness.
Hhh!
I said: On your knees
and beg the Princess.
Forgive us, Princess Selenia.
I don't think we heard that.
Our humblest apologies,
Princess Selenia.
Hhh!
I'll think about it.
That's my daughter,
just like her mother.
- You fought like a prince.
- Thanks.
This sword seems so light.
It all seems so easy.
Of course, it's a magic sword.
It's been embedded in that rock for years
and you're the one who released it.
- Really?
- Oh yes, my friend.
You're a hero now.
Arthur the hero!
Long live Arthur the hero!
Father! Now that the sword
has been freed from the stone,
we must act fast.
I would like your permission
to continue my mission.
Unfortunately, I have to
agree with you, my child.
But I must insist on one condition.
What condition is that?
Arthur is brave and his heart is pure.
He will go with you.
If that is what you wish, father.
Well done Arthur.
I'm sure you're going
to make a fine team.
The way is clear
Are you sure that
you haven't forgotten anything?
I'm sure.
Go ahead. Let go.
Oh, oh, oh, ah!
Father, do we really have
to take Betameche with us?
Even if your brother is still young,
one day he will be older...
Arthur, if you should encounter
a small mole wearing glasses
who answers to the name of Mino
on your travels, he's my son.
He's been missing for
some three months now.
You can count on me.
Oh, thank you, Arthur.
Hey, hero.
Let's go.
Hey!
Wait for me.
You could at least wait for me!
Boy, I do hope they won't
fall into any traps.
I slept like a rock.
Arthur, time to get up.
Selenia, slow down a bit, can't you?
No way! It's your fault for
loading yourself up like a gamallus!
I just packed a little bit of everything,
you know, just in case...
Uh, what's a gamallus?
It's like a pachymollet,
only much bigger.
- And what does a pachymollet look like?
- Like that!
Any chance you got something in
your bag for dealing with pachymollets?
Don't worry! I've got
my 300 function pocket knife here.
Double knife, multicrab clips,
soap bubbles, music box,
and for when things
get really hot, a fan.
Hey, that's pretty handy alright!
And then you've got
all your classic functions
like your tulipan, matchet,
sunjink, whistler, gullybar...
Nothing in there to cut off
tongue by any chance?
No, but that's you specialty, isn't it?
Stay right where you are!!
- Run. On my signal.
- Mmm-hhh.
Now!
Here we are.
Anybody home?
Not many people come through this way.
Once you've tried it,
you'll understand why!
Anybody home?
Oh, oh, no!
I'm sorry!
I... I mistook you for a bell.
Um, no, I mean, I didn't realize
you were actually... alive!
Eh, hold on.
Ma que fa, stupido!
What do you think you're doing
knocking out all of my customers like that?
It's not as if I have
so many to start with.
Hello.
I am Princess Selenia.
I know that and
that is your stupido brother.
And who's the third comedian
who comes around
knocking out all the customers?
My name's Arthur!
- And I'm looking for my grandfather!
- Ahhh...
I transported your grandfather
a few years ago.
An old eccentric madman
who absolutely insisted
on being transported
deep inside Seides territory,
to the Necropolis.
That's him.
That's my grandfather.
And that's exactly where we wanna go!
- Sold out.
- Ah!
Necropolis, sure,
why not the moon as well...
We didn't ask you for the moon.
We asked for three tickets to Necropolis.
Is that clear enough?
Arthur!
Arthur?
You break my door to steal the key?
Answer me Arthur!
Aahh!!!
Alfred!
Oh! What a job!
Right this way.
Come on, keep it moving
while we're young.
Yes, that's a leaf.
Let's go, dandelion.
Hey, that ain't for decoration.
You're gonna need it.
Arrivederci, baby.
Arthur.
Arthur!!!
The car?
What's the car doing there?
Necropolis, ohh.
Oh, boy!
Here we go.
Ah, here it is!
Oh, wow!
That's cool.
I got another one just like it in pink.
Wanna see it?
Beta, we've got enough light already.
Arthur?
Uh, where exactly are we heading?
We are here and we're going here!
Oh my gosh!
I know where that is.
- That's right under the water tank.
- Giant water tank.
In the hands of
that unspeakable piece of...
- Now I'm starting to understand.
- Who are you talking about?
The most evil of evil.
Oh! Malthazar.
Holy humpbacked gamallus!
Didn't anyone ever teach you
to hold your tongue?
I... I'm really sorry.
Arthur?!
Granny?
And... we're off.
Arthur?
How long is the flight?
It's pretty short, as long as we can
avoid any unpleasant encounters.
What do you mean by
unpleasant encounters?
Holy bumblebee smashed the door in
and now we're stuck.
Whoa!
- What is that?
- I have no idea.
But I don't think we should
hang around to find out!
- Wh... What are you doing?
- I'm getting out of here.
Oops.
Hold on tight.
- Whooaa!!!
- Whoa!
- I like it much better when it stops.
- Oh gosh!
Somebody's gonna get hurt with this.
I'll hang onto it.
It'll be safer that way.
The water!
Do something, Arthur!
Get us out of this!
It looks like you two are gonna
have to get me out of this.
There's a hole in my boat!
Minimoys can't swim!
- I'm coming to get you.
- Arthur!
Arthur, please!
I'm coming, I'm coming.
I know this river.
First there's a bend to the right,
then, there's a sharp bend to the left.
So to catch up with them,
all I have to do is cut straight
across as the crow flies.
Sorry, but as the crow flies is
as the crow flies.
- Now you see, I didn't abandon you.
- Oh, great!
So instead of the two of us drowning,
now all three of us can drown together.
No one's gonna drown, Selenia.
Surely you're not gonna let
a little river frighten you, are you?
It's not the river I'm frightened of.
It's that!
So, Mr. "I'm here",
got any good ideas before we drown?
Sure, of course I have.
Beta, any chance there's a rope on that
300 function pocket knife of yours?
Euh, no.
That's only on the smaller model.
I've got an idea.
- Hey!
- Ow!
Just because we're gonna die, it doesn't
mean you can start taking liberties.
No, you've got it all wrong.
I, I need the lace
to reach that tree over there.
I'm not so sure about this idea of yours.
- Well, I'm sure.
- Whooaahh!
Arthur, have you ever thrown
a sword like that before?
No, but it can't be much
more difficult than playing darts.
Betameche you go first!
- Selenia, you next!
- Yes, sir!
Your turn Selenia.
Betameche, hurry up!!
I can't, I'm sliping.
Selenia, hold on with both hands!
Absolutely no way!!
- We're safe.
- Not quite. Aah!!
Come on, Arthur, hurry up.
We haven't got all day.
I'm coming.
Selenia, you gotta admit it.
The guy is pretty agile.
Huh! It's easy when
you've got both hands free
Thanks.
Arthur, you were fantastic!
Right, maybe Mr. Fantastic
can return my lace now.
It's already so hard without my husband.
I don't know how
I'll survive without Arthur.
I'm sure he's just run away for a spell.
All of these events
have probably upset him.
- Yes.
- I don't think he could have gotten far,
and we're gonna do everything
we can to find him, ma'am.
- Okay.
- You can count on us.
What was that?
- Humans.
- Really?
Yep. Sometimes it's like that
all day long.
Oh, rats.
This map's a total washout.
How are we ever gonna
find our way now?
We'll use the position of the sun
to guide us when it comes up.
In the meantime,
let's look for a place to sleep.
And make sure you find us
something comfy, Selenia,
'cause I ache all over.
Beta, if you complain once more,
you can go sleep under a bullmunch.
What's a bullmunch?
It's like a gamallus,
only much, much bigger.
Beta, I'm gonna need your knife.
Coming right up!
Where did they put the METAGLUE?
Wah!! Aah!
Whoops!
- Ah!
- Sorry!
Give that to me, Beta, before
you end up hurting somebody.
Just hang on.
I haven't had it very long.
- I just got it for my birthday.
- How old are you?
I'm 300 years old.
Only another sixty years,
I will be a grown-up.
- How old's Selenia then?
- Almost a thousand years old.
A thousand years old?
Oh, yes.
The age of reason.
It's her birthday in two days.
How is this working?
Got it!
- Whoa!
- Oh!
Come on.
Ow! Ah!
What's she up to?
She's making the bed.
Ah!
I'm exhausted.
Goodnight!
Well, he certainly doesn't have
any trouble sleeping, does he?
- It's normal. He's still young.
- Three hundred years young.
It's not bad!
Whooaah! Whooaa.
Ah!
So good.
What about you?
Are you really gonna be
a thousand years old in two days?
Aaah, yes.
And in two days time,
I am to succeed my father.
And watch over the Minimoy people
until it shall come to pass
that my own children reach the age
of one thousand and succeed me.
Such is the tradition!
But to have children,
you need a... husband.
I know.
But I'm not worried.
I still have two whole days
to find one.
And now...
Goodnight...
Arthur!
Goodnight, Princess.
Arthur?!
Hmmm.
Oh!
Come on, time to get up boys.
We've got a long journey
ahead of us today.
Hello, I said: Get up.
Okay, this calls for
a change of tactic.
- Ow!
Come on now, shower time.
- That's what I call a rude awakening.
- Consider yourself lucky.
She's been waking me up like that
every morning for the last 300 years.
Mmm, these are even better
than the other ones.
Here, try some.
Hmm, tastes good.
What is it exactly?
Dragonfly eggs.
Hey, come and take a look at this.
Oh!
Wow!
That's awful!!
I suppose, euh, seen from this angle,
it is less attractive.
Anybody have an idea
what this thing is for?
It's an irrigation system.
It transports water.
Water?
More water?
I'm really sorry,
I had absolutely no idea that...
Wait, wait, wait.
Wait a minute.
You mean that you're the one
who built this monstrosity?
Yes, but I, I only wanted
to water the radishes.
- Granny loves radishes.
- What?
You mean, you actually eat
those disgusting things?
Let's just hope your invention
doesn't fall into the hands of the Evil M.
Otherwise, I have a pretty good idea
of what he'll do with it.
Timber!
Watch out!
My straws.
They're stealing my straws.
As long as they're
getting rid of those things,
- I'd say they're doing us a favour.
- Try thinking before you talk, Betameche!
The Evil M. Knows only too well
that the Minimoys can't stand water.
And your friend, Arthur here,
just provided him
with the means to transport water.
- Where do you suppose he'll send it to?
- Oh! Our village!
Arthur, where are you going?
To repair the damage I've done.
I can't believe that guy.
Humans are really crazy.
That may be.
But I think Arthur's right.
They're bound to take the straws
to Necropolis and us along with them.
I never get to decide anything.
It's really nice of you to come with me.
I'm just worried you're gonna do
something stupid if I'm not around.
Pssst!
Beta, hurry up!
Ah! Whooaa!! Aahh!!
Here we go again.
Do you know at least
where this waterway leads to?
No. But in any case, all rivers
and waterways meet up at some point.
Ah, you always have such
brilliant ideas, don't you?!
Don't worry, I'll take care of it.
Give me back your lace.
Absolutely no way.
Hold on tight.
Uh! Ah!
Oh! I hate public transportation!
Hey-ho!
Hey, man, what are you
playin' at down there?
Uh, if the Seides find us first,
we won't have a chance to tell you.
The seides?
- You got a problem?
- No, it's nothing.
I was just checking that
the accordion part ain't damaged.
We don't need that part.
We're only want the stems.
Oh, yeah, the stems.
Sure thing.
Get a move on,
the master is waiting.
Oh, yeah, the master.
Sure thing.
No problemo.
Whatever you do, don't move
until I come back and get you. Got it?
- No problemo.
So where are these refugees of yours?
I've hidden them in a mega discreet place.
- Pretty cool, huh?
- Yup, and mega discreet like you said.
Jackfire all 'round!
- Uh, yes, please.
- Yes, yes, yes.
Uh, sure, thanks.
Hey, Jack, fill 'em up.
This one is on me.
Heh, heh, heh.
Yes!
Long live the Seven Kingdoms!
Yeah.
Aah!
Just what I needed.
Oh, yep.
That hits the spot.
Ooh!
It's the best jackfire in town baby.
Oh, euh, sorry.
Euh, to the Seven Kingdoms!
That's refreshing stuff!
As long as you here with me,
there's really nothing to fear.
I'm the boss here.
My name is Max.
Hiya Max!
And you, young lady.
Who might you be?
Selenia, daughter of
Emperor Sifrat of Matradoy,
the fifteenth of that name,
Governor of the First Kingdom.
Wow!
Delighted to meet you, baby.
Jack, same again.
Hey, yo Easylow!
Wheuh?
Yes, boss?
Let's get this show on the road.
You got it.
May I have the honor of
this dance, Princess?
Selenia? We ought to be making a move,
we've still got a long way to go!
Certainly.
She's too old for me anyway.
She's a thousand.
I'm only ten.
What would I want with an older woman?
What's a good looking kid like you
doing in front of an empty glass?
Well if it wasn't empty,
you couldn't fill it up, could you?
I like your sense of humour, kid.
I can tell we're gonna
get along just fine. Jack!
Hey, hey, hey, take it easy.
If you want to find a husband in two days,
then there's no time to lose.
- But I can help you out if you like.
- Oh, that's sweet of you, thanks.
I like to help out.
Besides, which things are
pretty tame right now.
I only have seven wives.
Wow! Seven wives?
That uh...
Ahuh...
That must take a lot out of you.
I like hard work.
I can work night and day.
Seven days a week,
and I never get tired.
HAh, hah, hah.
Wonderful!
So, where do I sign?
Anywhere you like, kid.
It doesn't make any difference.
- Oh, Selenia!
- Um...
Excuse me, but, uh...
He's already signed up elsewhere.
Selenia, it's...
Are you really gonna be
a thousand years old?
Yeah, if you count the years
in Selenielle blossoms.
Selenielle's the royal flower.
Ahh!
Okay, in Selenielles.
- So, how old does that make me?
- About the same age as me.
Wow!
That's amazing.
And uh... So before,
were you a little girl like me?
- What?
- No, I... I mean, I'm a boy, of course.
But, were you a little girl
like the other little girls
- in my neighborhood?
- No, I was born as I am.
And I've never set foot
outside the Seven Kingdoms.
I'd really like to take you
to my world one day.
That's Malthazar?
No, lucky for you.
It's only Darkos, his son.
Eh, hey!
Darkos, this is an honour.
Nah.
Great timing. There's quite a vibe
going down here this evening.
I can see that.
Organizing parties without
inviting our friends now, are we?
No way.
It wasn't planned.
Just a little something we improvised.
To impress the new punters, you know?
New faces?
Warm me if he comes this way.
Hey, Darkos, what's up?
Selenia.
What's a princess of your rank
doing in a place like this?
I just dropped in for a dance.
Ah!
Well then, let's dance.
Darkos, sweetheart.
I would rather die than dance with you!
Your wish is my command, Princess.
You will dance for all eternity!
- Easylow, get this place rocking.
- Yes.
Get them!
Yeah.
Arthur! Look out!
Hey, they're putting up a good fight.
Let's see if they've got the groove.
Staying alive.
Huh-huh-huh-huh...
I think I'll go get some reinforcements.
Yeah!
- I like this kid.
- Mmm-hhh.
Oh! Three against one, huh?
Then I'll just triple the power.
Oh! How sweet!
So... You shouldn't have.
Oh, really.
It was nothing.
Woooh!
That's my girl.
- Ha!
- Holy gullybars, you scared me!
What are you doing here?
I lost my knife.
I gotta find something else.
- You find anything??
- Ahhh! Naa!
My knife!
Wooh!
That's entertainment.
Wha...Aah!!
Easylow, closing time, I think.
- Charge.
- Charge, my butt.
- Aahh!
- Got them!
- There they are.
- I've got, I've got them.
- Ow! One of them bit me.
- Sorry, boss.
Somebody, turn the lights on!
What's going on?
I'm just following your orders, my Lord.
Ten o'clock curfew.
And it's ten o'clock.
Late opening authorization granted!!!
Cool, real cool!
Come on, man, follow me.
Look, if you go this way,
you'll travel safe.
Oh, great!!
This is from Max.
It will lead you right to M's quarters.
Ooohhh, I'm sure glad
me ain't going along.
Get out.
Move aside.
I... want... them!!!!!
What was that unearthly scream?
Oh, just Darkos throwing
a little temper tantrum.
Do you think Max will be able
to delay him for long?
Max is a real smooth talker.
I think we can count on him.
Come on, let's go.
Yeah, yeah, right. How can you even
think about trusting a guy like...?
- Hey, wait.
- Don't start Betameche.
- Oh, wait.
- Just keep walking and shut up, please.
- Wh-what's that growling noise?
- What growling noise?
- I don't hear anything.
- Cut it out, Selenia.
I know you're just saying that
to give me the creeps.
- Come on, what was it?
- It's the Yeti.
He's growling because
you woke him up.
And now, he's gonna eat you.
Now what do you say?
The Yeti? Really?
- Aaaahhhh!!!
- Surprise!!
Yeah, well, this is... a surprise.
Where's Arthur?
He's up... in...
In the garden.
In the, in the... in the garden?
- Hhh! This is it.
- Thank you, Betameche.
Without you, we'd be completely lost.
- Give me your knife.
- Okay, but don't break it.
Oh, come on, boys, let's go.
- After you, Selenia.
- Princesses first.
Men only act like gentlemen
when it suits them, huh?
Well, uh...
Princes second.
Guess it's my turn.
Aaaahhhh!!! Ah!
What do you mean he disappeared?
Every night I, I told him stories about
his Grandpa's adventures in Africa.
And last night, I, I told him
about the Minimoys.
The Min, Mini what? What?
The Minimoys!
And, um, he became convinced
that they live in our garden.
In the garden?
These are just fairy tales
and legends, Granny.
Of course, but then,
since I made the mistake
of, of letting him know
about our money problems,
he got it into his head to find
the treasure that grandpa hid.
- What treasure?
Honey,
what's the use of finding the treasure
if Arthur isn't here to enjoy it?
Don't worry, Granny.
I'm sure Arthur will be right back.
He... He just took
a little time off, that's all.
- No, in the hole.
- Sorry.
Not the face.
Hurry!
Aaahhh!!! Oh!
Oh.
- Shhh.
- Selenia, it's crawling with Seides.
Duh...
What do you think we're hiding for?
What are they doing?
They must be taking food to their Master.
Let's follow them.
- Do you think he's there?
- Yep!
Wh-wh-what are we gonna do, Selenia?
I'm gonna spoil his lunch.
Oh, oh!
He's not gonna like that.
- But Se...
- This is where our paths separate, Arthur.
I have to deal with this alone.
What do you mean?
I thought we were a team.
Well, the team is about to split up.
You're gonna go look for your treasure,
and I'm gonna take care of M.
If I succeed,
we'll meet back here.
And if you fail?
If I should fail...
I bequeath all my powers to you.
What do you mean?
Be a good king.
But, wait...
We have to...
Sele...
Congratulations, Arthur!
It was a wonderful wedding.
Really one of the loveliest weddings
I've ever been to.
Very moving, clear, concise and quick.
- Yeah. A little too quick.
- Oh, no, no.
You got the most important things,
her hand and her heart.
- What more do you want?
- Well, I don't know.
Maybe, like a party or something?
If you would allow me the pleasure,
I would love to be the one
to organize that party.
I spent entire days polishing
that sword to perfection.
I'd recognize that sound anywhere.
Hmm.
And who else would have been able
to draw the sword from the stone
besides you, Selenia?
I am delighted to see you, Princess.
Likewise!. This way I'll be able to kill
you with my own two hands.
Why so much hatred?
Because you betrayed your own people,
slaughtered entire populations
and bound the rest into slavery.
You're nothing but a monster.
Speak not of monsters.
Nor of things of which you are ignorant.
Back in the time when I was
known as Malthazar the Good,
Malthazar the Bountiful,
He who watches and protects,
I inspired such trust and confidence.
That when the drought came,
one which lasted a thousand years,
I was the one they chose for the crusade,
with the task of bringing back water,
of course,
but also, all the riches I could reap.
- Malthazar the Conqueror!
- Oh!
How they praised
and applauded me when I left.
But I faced every hardship quite alone.
The hostile lands, the ferocious beasts,
the bloodthirsty tribes,
lurking in the depths
of contaminated plateaus
where even the humans dare not go.
But I survived all that.
And having accomplished my mission,
I returned to my village.
Malthazar the Hero!
Yet, it was not long before
the diseases and bewitchments,
which I had encountered
during my voyage,
began to disfigure my body.
Fear spread through the people,
fear of contamination.
People stopped speaking to me.
They crossed the street
when I approached,
and very soon, I became
Malthazar the Evil M.
Uh, uh. The version recorded
in history books is slightly different.
It is said that when you returned
from your voyage,
you celebrated for months on end.
Each day sinking a little further
into drinking and debauchery,
until you began keeping company
with the worst kinds of insects,
even poisonous ones.
Like a certain pretty, young uh...
- weevil?
- Silence!
You gave your powers to her,
she gave her powers to you.
That's enough, I tell you.
I was drunk!
Ah, well, if you can't hold your liquor,
you shouldn't indulge.
Yes, I know.
I let myself go abasing
It's true, she stole a kiss from me.
One single kiss
which has ruined my entire life
Next time, try being a little more
selective in your choice of partner.
Next time, my partner will be
the most beautiful of all.
She whom I have watched blossom
like a delicate flower,
and whom I have long dreamt of picking.
Watch yourself.
Delicate flowers might have thorns.
Yes... And this lovely flower
alone has the power
to release me from
the spell that binds me
and make me look like
my old self again.
Only the very first kiss of
a princess has the power.
I know, and...
If my information is correct,
you are still unmarried.
Your information is
a little out-of-date.
- Master?
- Who dares disturb me?
It's me Bruce.
I... I got a new helmet.
Speak up.
Well, Selenia, you're more clever
than I thought you were.
Thank you.
You could have saved my life,
but you chose not to.
Don't count on me to spare yours.
Don't worry, Selenia.
You won't die right away.
You'll just suffer a little first,
as you watch the destruction
of your people.
You're a monster, Malthazar.
I know, I get it from my wife.
Take her away.
Leave me alone!
Let me go!
I'm married for five minutes and I already
feel like a widower, and a jailbird.
We gotta get out of here, Beta.
We gotta think of something.
- I'm thinking, Arthur, I'm thinking.
- The powers!
What about the powers
she gave me when she kissed me?
- I don't know.
- What do you mean, you don't know?
Strangling him won't do you any good.
And besides, you'd better save
your energy if you want to eat.
- What do you mean?
- If you wanna eat down here,
you'll have to teach them
something new every day.
Otherwise, you'll go hungry.
That makes sense, complete sense.
Knowledge is the one true source
of wealth, is it not?
What kinds of things
do they want to know?
Pfff, anything will do.
From the elementary laws of physics
to the behavioral patterns of winkles.
Even how to cook garden peas.
I taught them to write.
And to paint, especially huge canvasses.
And to harness light using mirrors.
And transport water
from one place to another.
Yes, that's true.
But how did you know all that?
Because the man who invented
all those wonderful things,
he's my grandfather.
- Arthur?
- Grandpa!
Oh my grandson!
Oh, I'm so happy to see you again.
Let me look at you.
My, how you've grown!
- It feels more like I've shrunk.
- Yes, that's true.
But how did you manage
to get down here?
Well, I found your riddle.
Oh, yes, of course, my riddle.
Oh, you are a true hero!
Hello, Archibald.
Remember me?
- Betameche, is that really you?
- Uh-huh.
Oh, I'm so happy to see you again.
How is your father, that noble king?
Very well indeed, thank you.
And your sister,
the charming Princess Selenia?
- Ah...
- Oh.
- Selenia.
I failed, Arthur.
I'm sorry.
All is lost.
No, as long as we're still alive
and love each other,
nothing will ever be lost.
You're so full of hope.
You can never give up hope.
Look at me.
Only yesterday,
I was just a small, lonely kid,
and today, well,
I married a princess.
A happy princess.
Because she's finally
found her prince charming.
W- W-Whoa! Time out!
I don't mean to be rude,
but don't you think you should
maybe respect the tradition?
Uh, Heu, heu.
Yes, he's right.
What was I thinking?
- Euh-euh.
- Oh, hey!
Archibald!
How are you?
Well, actually, not bad at all, Selenia.
- What a pleasure to see you again!
- Likewise, likewise!
Selenia, what's this tradition business?
Once the first kiss has been exchanged,
then you have to wait
another thousand years,
because then desire and
faith have to be put to the test.
That which is rare
is always valued highly.
She has a point, you know?
And as a Princess, it is my duty
to follow the teachings of the Great Book.
Besides, you ought to do the same,
instead of trying to steal kisses from me.
Me? It wasn't me.
You were the one...
Come along my two lovebirds.
It's Showtime!
If you would care to...
Gate open, boss.
My God!
When I think that it was I
that taught them all this,
and now they're gonna
use it against us.
When I think that I was the one
who gave them the straws.
Look, it's Mino, Miro's son.
He's still alive.
The treasure.
Ah, Archibald.
What a great pleasure it is
to see you again!
- The pleasure is all yours.
- So, Archibald,
aren't you proud of the marvelous use
I've made of your knowledge?
Looks like a fine structure.
A shame its only purpose
is to flood the Minimoys.
Oh no, not only that.
We are going to drown them,
pulverize them,
and destroy them forever.
They will die in agony
with my name on their lips.
Look, read my lips.
Mal - tha - zar.
You really are a monster.
Maybe.
But I also know how to be noble.
You are free.
See?
All you have to do
is follow this tunnel
and you'll be home in no time.
As soon as we're inside that tunnel,
you'll flood it.
My poor Selenia.
What a twisted mind you have!
Come on, hurry up,
before I change my mind.
- Sire?
- What is it now?
May I ask Your Highness to grant me
one last favor before I die.
I like this kid.
What is this favor?
I would like to leave
my only valued possession,
this bracelet, to my friend, Mino.
Granted.
Your father sent me.
I'll get you out of here.
But you need to signal
your position at noon precisely.
Si, si, si, signal my position, but how?
Using your mirrors, Mino, mirrors.
- Oh, yes, mi-mi-mi-mi-mirrors.
- That's enough.
Patience is the only thing
for which I set myself a limit.
At noon.
High noon on the dot.
I shall allow you a head start
of three minutes.
I hope he burns in hell.
He's already there, Selenia.
Hurry!
- Darkos?
- Yes, father?
Prepare to open the floodgates
Come on, come on!
Is there nothing to nibble?
I do love something to nibble on
during a good show.
I can't go on.
And what's the point
in running anyway?
Grandpa, come on, hurry.
You go on.
I'm staying here.
To await my death with a little dignity.
Come on, Grandpa.
You can do it.
Arthur, what's the point?
You must face up to it, son.
We're done for.
Your Highness, a few tasty titbits.
Mmm, delicious.
Bring me more.
Yes, master.
There must be a solution.
There's always a solution.
The only solution is to pray,
my children. Pray for a miracle.
The problem is, I've already asked
the Great Goddess of the Forest
for so many miracles.
I'm afraid she might get mad.
- A miracle!
- A miracle?
- Where?
- Right here, Grandpa.
You're sitting on it.
Look.
Come and give me a hand.
Come on, push!
- What is this thing?
- It's a car.
It's a Ferrari 250 GTI 12-cylinder.
It's a birthday present.
Don't tell me you know
how to drive that thing?
Of course I do. If the young lady
would care to step this way.
Oh, God, whatever!
Bingo!
Hurry, Arthur.
If we want make it the whole way,
we have to wind it up as far as it will go.
Arthur, the water is coming.
- Arthur, please.
- Got it.
This is the first time I've ever
taken a girl out for a drive.
Well, let's just hope
it won't be the last.
- Step on it.
- We're off.
- Faster!
I just hope there aren't any speed
cameras down here or we've had it.
Hey, go to the left.
I'd appreciate a little more warning
next time if that's ok with you?
Okay.
Turn right.
- Which way do I go now, left or right?
- Down.
- Selenia, I don't feel so good.
- Just hang in there.
The road is smoother now.
Honey, do you hear that strange noise?
It sounds like there's
running water underneath.
Oh great. Now you're hearing voices
just like Joan of Arc did.
Next thing you know you're
gonna be seeing little angels
and great big ghosts with spears
and armour coming after you.
Wait, wait.
You might want to turn around.
There's, well,  large men with necklaces
and feathers, and I don't know.
What the...
Would you happen
to have the time, please?
The time.
Sure.
According to our calculations,
the water should hit the village
in three balls time.
What time is it, my dear Miro?
Five to noon, my good King.
Only five minutes left
and still no news.
Have faith in them, my good King.
I am sure they will succeed.
May the Gods hear you, Miro,
may the gods hear you!
Look, there's the gate!
We made it.
Yes. Yeah!
Huh?
Arthur, you're not going
break down on us now?
Sorry, I guess we're gonna
have to get out and run!!!
What, what is that rumbling noise?
I have no idea, Sire.
But I have a terrible foreboding.
Father, it's me, Selenia!
My daughter!
They've returned.
- Open the gate!
Yes, yes.
Open the gate now!
Close the gate immediately!
Open it, close it.
Make up your mind.
All together now!
You did it Daddy, you did it.
You are now the uncontested Master
of all the Kingdoms.
Heaven knows I don't care
about titles and honors,
but I must admit that it does
feel good to be Supreme Ruler.
- Let us prepare ourselves.
- Yeah, Daddy.
- The gate looks as if it will hold.
- Not for long.
Oh, my children!
- Papa!
- Daddy!
- Oh.
- Mmm.
We missed you, Papa.
Oh, my children, you're this old king's
most prized possessions.
What's wrong?
No, no, no, the phone's cut off.
It doesn't work.
What is wrong?!
Out... Out there!!
- What's out there?
- Five.
- Five what?
- Black!
- What are you talking about?
- They're huge.
Where're you going?
Don't leave me here.
No, Granny, please.
It's noon!
In one minute!
Hurry now.
You only have one minute.
We can only hold the water back
for about an hour,
but I know that I can depend on you.
After all, you're one of us now.
And I hope you know that
you're always welcome back here.
Ah! And a second turn of
the wheel for the spirit.
Our lives are in your hands, my friend.
We're counting on you and your grandson.
Don't worry. Arthur has a plan
and I'm sure it's gonna work.
Uh, it's going to pretty dull
around here without you.
Come back soon, huh?
At the tenth moon.
That's a promise.
He, he, he... Ha!
Ten moons, that gives us plenty of time
to put our desire to the test
and respect the protocol.
The hell with the protocol.
And a third turn of
the wheel for the soul.
Oh, oh, my God!
Oh!
Whoaaa!
See you...
in ten moons!
Ah!
Thank you.
- You okay?
- Yeah, thanks.
Mom?
Mom!
- Mom?
- Eh!
Honey... Out.
What...
Oh!
Arthur!
- Where have you been?
- I was with the Minimoys.
- The Min... Mini what?
- The Minimoys.
Ooh! Ha, ha!
Mom?!
Granpa!
Are you okay?
My brothers!!
Oh!
I'm so glad to see you again.
- Grandpa!
- What?
We've got no time left!
We've gotta go!
You're right.
Noon on the dot.
And no one in sight.
I'm afraid, though it is
a beautiful Sunday,
despite it being the day of our Lord,
there seems to be no miracle.
So,...
You're right, Davido.
It is a beautiful, beautiful Sunday.
I believe we have some papers to sign,
am I right?
Let's go in the living room,
we'll be more comfortable.
While I try to buy time,
you get busy finding the treasure.
Okay.
Mino!
Mino, where are you?
This is not gonna be easy.
Light!
I promised you riches and power,
and Maltazard always
keeps his promises.
Nothing can stop us now.
The Seven Kingdoms are... mine.
I mean, of course, ours.
BRAVO!
What?
Ex... Excuse me.
Could you tell me what time it is?
I'm kind of far-sighted.
Uh, noon!
Thank you.
My fearless and faithful warriors,
let the festivities begin.
Now if I do the exact opposite,
the light, which reflects downwards,
should then reflect upwards.
Mino!
You're the best.
What the...?
What is he doing?
Darkos!
That idiot will give our position away.
Make him cut that beam immediately.
- Cut the beam.
- Huh? Oh, sorry.
Because I'm far sighted,
but I'm also hard of hearing.
You fool! You will be sorry
that you defied Malthazar.
Oh, it's nothing, really.
Bring him here.
W, w, w, watch out!
I can get really nasty.
Ha! Ha! Sure you can.
Come on, show us.
I got it. Stop it.
I got it, I got it.
What is this thing?
I know, I know.
Oh gracious Lord, it's a kind of...
Oh, water.
- Daddy, they've blocked the pipe.
- Damn!
Father, what shall I do?
What about me, Father?
As for you, my son,...
I hereby solemnly appoint you
Commander of the lmperial Forces.
Oh, thank you, Father.
That's nice but...
you wouldn't have a place left on
that mosquito of yours, would you?
A Commander never deserts his post.
Father!
Daddy!
Mino?
Come out.
Yes!
More coffee?
No! No more coffee!
Thank you!
But what I would love is
for you to sign the paper.
Of course.
What did I do with my pen?
Oh, what a lovely pen!
We have wasted enough time.
- Sign!
- Of course.
And now...
The money.
Huh?
Oh! The money, yes.
I'd like to see how you're gonna
pull one of your tricks now.
Here.
Bravo my boy!
So then...
Good accounts make for good friends,
isn't that right?
There you are.
Paid in full.
Sir, I must now be saying goodbye.
Goodbye now.
Goodbye!
Ha! Ha! Ha!
Congratulations!
Nobody move!
I said.
So that's why you had
your sights set on this land?
Of course. The call of greed,
now and forever.
One night you had a few too many.
And you told me about this treasure.
And ever since, I have not
had a good night's sleep.
But now, it's mine!
Thanks kid.
Nice job.
Well, I'll be saying my farewells.
You won't be seeing me ever again.
Because I am going far, far away.
You're coming with me.
C'mon.
Get your hands off me.
I know the govenor.
Oh, I'll take that.
I'll take that.
Next time, please,
put your gift in a safer place.
- That's a promise.
- We will. I'll, I'll take it.
It's much safer with me.
Don't worry Mino.
I'm gonna take care of you.
They did it!
Yes! They did it!
My daughter.
My son.
Oh, boy.
Heh!!!
Oh, I would love
my little Mino to see this.
I understand Miro,
but our people are safe and sound,
and that is something
to be thankful for.
Of course, of course.
Wait, I...
I think I know what it is.
Hey! It's Mino!
Mino, my son!
Papa!
Oh, my boy.
Well, there you go.
All's well that ends well.
Not quite.
May I?
I think it's ready.
Excuse me.
I propose a toast!
- Here!
Here it comes.
Honey.
- What is that?
- My favorite dish.
African giraffe's neck.
Oh! Archibald!
What?
Ay!
Honey! Honey! Rosie!
- I was only kidding.
- Come on.
- Rosie! Rosie! Wake up, honey!
- Ow!
Every time she gets a little excited,
over she goes.
I think some other...
Where's Arthur?
Euh, he...
just went to wash up.
He'll be back in a jiffy.
Only ten more moons, Selenia.
I will wait for you.